---
layout: post
title: "Cmake"
date: 2021-06-10
---
The original audio files are available at https://pytorch-dev-podcast.simplecast.com/

# Cmake

Hello, everyone, and welcome to the Pytorch dev podcast.
Today, I want to talk about SeaMake, or perhaps want to talk about is too complimentary a word of it.
Really, what you're gonna listen to today's podcast is me ranting about how he make his terrible.
And oh my god.
It is terrible.
And blah blah blah blah blah.
And there there's two parts to today's podcast.
So the first part is gonna be short.
And it's basically like, dude, I know you, like, have this preference about where you wanna file to be, but like seriously just follow this small set of rules for when you're adding new files to Pytorch and you won't run afoul to Seamake gods and everyone will be happy and you will not have to deal with Seamake.
And the second part of the talk, which is gonna be much longer because there's just so much random shit that is wrong about SeaMake, is like, okay.
Actually, you gotta do something with a C make, like, you gotta make a change, you gotta add a new library, blah blah blah.
How do you actually go about understanding the monstrosity, that is PyTorch's CMIC configuration.
So in order.
First off, what is CMIC? So C Make is a build configuration system.
So what it does is you write C Make list files that describe, you know, aspects of your built system, most importantly, you know, what your source files are and what the libraries you wanna build are, and then SeaMake will generate some sort of actual you know, build file usually either make or ninja when you build Pytorch by default we generate ninja files because ninja is way better than make at running builds.
Anyway, so it generates an actual file that it hands off to some other system that just knows about how to build things quickly.
And the reason for this two step ness is that Seamake deals with all the Grody information about, oh, you know, what our packages, where flies? Like, how do you detect things? How do you, you know, generate files for both ninja, but also Microsoft Visual Studio depending on what platform you want, etcetera, etcetera.
And then a system like Ninja can be really simple, really short, and it's just you know, I've got this graphic dependencies.
How do I build it as quickly as possible in the correct order? Okay.
So if you've ever ridden any serious open source software, you may know of the thing where build systems are just generally a complete disaster.
And Pytrich's build system is no exception.
I like to kinda think of it.
This is because, well, you know, we're all here to write software.
Right? Like, we're all here to write an awesome deep learning library.
And so every moment spent not doing SeaMake is time spent well.
every minute.
Stent doing Cymake.
And that ends up in the sort of very tragedy of the common situation where the Cymake is terrible And it actually, like, legitimately, like, people would be more productive if the SeaMake was better structured.
But no one knows SeaMake.
No one has the time to deal with it.
People are just cargo culting changes whenever they need to do something.
And so things just get worse and worse without anything anyone working on it.
So if you are being beaten down by the establishment and you don't have time to raise a revolution, there are some easy things you can do to reduce the risk of, you know, running into a CMIC disaster.
And I really only have one rule here.
And the rule here is a by the existing pie torch structure and don't try to do anything fancy.
And when I say do anything fancy, I mean, like add a new directory to put your files in.
Why do I give this advice? Well, I give this advice because the way CMIC is set up, right, is we have to do a lot of you know, telling the built system what files to actually compile in.
And so sometimes the list of files that you wanna compile in is written out by hand, like one by one by one by one.
So in some in some directories, if you add a new file, you will need to add that file to some list somewhere that says, oh, here's a list of all the files.
And in some other places, it's done using a glob.
And so if you just add the files to the directory, the glob will pick it up.
And in a very very restricted set of cases, do we do a recursive club that looks into all sub directories? So if you don't want to have to edit the build system, then if you don't add any new files, that's like a sure fireware to make sure you don't have to edit the build system.
Excluding that, well, if you don't add a new directory, if you just add a new file, hopefully, a glob will pick it up.
But if it doesn't pick it up, you know, just find one of the other files in the directory, prep for it, and that will tell you whatever file you get edited.
And, you know, cargo culting it in that way usually isn't too painful.
But if you want to add a new directory, well, you're actually gonna have to understand a little bit about how Seamake works if a requested club isn't picking it up.
So just, you know, if you don't have time to deal with the build system, just don't forget add a new directory to Pytorch.
Yes.
I'm sorry.
Like, PyTorch's structure sometimes doesn't look so good.
Sometimes you really wanna add a new folder because you think that it's gonna make things organized better.
And so if you really, really think this is important, then listen to the second half of this podcast or try to explain the method behind the madness of C Makela.
But if you don't have time, just don't do it, please.
Oh, and one more extra tip.
So when you add a new file, SeaMake has to actually pick it up.
And when a glob is being used, CMIC won't automatically pick up the change because it doesn't repeatedly rescan the directory every time you build it.
That would be expensive.
So you have to manually re trigger C Make.
And when you're using set up dot pitable byte rich, you can just pass the dash dash dash c Make flag to cause it to pick it up.
This is one of the reasons of the debate between whether or not a glob is better or a a list of of explicit files is better.
If you do a list of explicit files, you have to actually edit the CMIC list.
to add a new file that'll trigger a CMIC rebuild automatically.
But if it's a glob, you have to, like, you know, patch dash dash dash CMIC.
Just a little thing to be aware of if you're ever adding new files to PyTorch Okay.
So if I have duly scared you off of, you know, doing C Make modifications, that's great.
You can stop listening to this podcast.
now I wanna talk a little bit about, like, what the heck is going on with the build system in PyTorch.
And so there's a few things that, like, are historically important to understand about why the build system is so freaking complicated.
So one is that and this is an ongoing constraint and you will have a very hard time getting at this constraint is that PyTorch needs to be built under multiple built systems.
So it's not just the open source C make that you're building it, but there is also a buck based build system that is run inside Facebook for building Patrick for server site.
There is also a second buck build system that is built for Facebook.
But when you're running Pytorch on mobile and other sort of exotic device There is a third Facebook build system, which is run when you are building Metroid four, running it on oculus.
And there is a fifth Basel build system, which someone requested us for us.
And so we we remain hidden for them because, you know, buck bezel.
They're basically the same thing, but like, you know, if you're using bezel, you need the actual bezel built system.
So there's so many build systems and Each of them sort of is reimplemented, and there is some work to be done to so we we have some stuff to, like, deduplicate configuration between them.
In particular, there's this concept called a pen file list, which lets us read out file lists from Basel files into Seamake.
And we use this in a few cases, not not everywhere, but in a few cases.
But in general, like, when you are doing a build system change, it is not just a sea make change, you also need to change all of the other built systems.
And that can be quite a tall order, especially if you don't work at Facebook.
and you have no way of running any other Facebook internal build system.
So find your favorite Facebook employee and make them actually do the build system change for you.
The second important thing to know about our build system is that it is the unholy mash together of the CAFE two built system and the Pytorch built system.
Remember when I said that we merged Pytorch and CAFE two, Well, this is one of the things we merge.
Right? We took the two build systems, smashed them together, and we we didn't really get very far in, like, refactoring everything.
So for example, you might be wondering where the torch library is defined.
would be very reasonable for torch to be defined in torch slash sea make lists.
Well, it is not defined in torch slash sea make lists.
It is defined in cafe to slash sea make lists.
Why is that the case? Well, because it used to not be called live torch, it used to be called live cafe two.
And eventually, we renamed it to Lip torch, but no one bothered moving the CMIC definition from Cafe two CMIC listed towards CMIC list.
I really hope These parts of the podcast eventually become obsolete, but I'm not holding my breath because as I said, no one really likes working on SeaMake.
And the last reason I would say that our build system is very complicated is a sort of problem intrinsic problem with CMIC itself.
So the CMIC model historically is set a bunch of global variables in a crappy imperative programming language and then stuff happens.
Right? Like like literally, it's like, you know, set this, set this, set this, blah blah blah.
Modern CMIC involves, oh, define a dependency graph, which, you know, says the library structure that you want to build, but but really like you're still setting tons of variables along the way to like figure out how you're gonna set things up.
So what makes C make hard to understand is that, like, there's this program and it's setting a ton of variables.
The order in which these variables are set matters, you're sort of stepping in and out of various sub directories for different C Make lists.
And so if you wanna understand what any given definition is, you have to understand the trace of all the possible CMA files that were included before, that might have set that variable in question.
So that means that there's a lot of non local action going on.
Like, I said that the torch library definition is in cafe two dots slash sea make list.
Where is the files that the torch library includes defined, well, not cafe to slash sea make list.
That one's actually in the much more reasonably placed Aten CERC, Aten C make list.
So you have to like be willing to follow the breadcrumbs to find where things are defined.
Fortunately for you, because Cemic is a really crappy imperative programming language, it also is very dumb.
So for example, if you are looking for a variable that is being set somewhere, you can just grab for that variable and you will find it.
You don't have to worry about, like, oh, some sort of meta programming thing going on, generating these variables on the fly search for the variable and you will find where it is defined.
I guarantee you.
So modifying C make or, like, sort of, understanding how the C make works usually just involves, like, you know, doing a lot of gripping rounds to find all the places where a particular variable is set.
One last note, not everything is in c make list dot txt.
We also have some dot c make files that contain various configuration.
in the aptly named c make slash folder.
And there's a lot of actually very important stuff going on there, like, you know, the stuff that's responsible for calling our cogeneration scripts.
say, previous podcast.
So, you know, be sure to check those out as well.
But I don't really recommend trying to sit down and read through all of our Sea Make end to end.
Although, you're certainly welcome to try.
And if you successfully do it.
You'll have a very good idea of how everything is set up.
But it's usually better to just use this tactical idea of, you know, like, looking like find the definition that matters.
In in in C make's case, there's actually really only one definition that matters.
Right? Add library.
add library in CMXs, define a library that is the thing that, you know, I wanna build.
So every, like, you know, dynamic library that you see dumped in torch slash live whenever you build Pytorch, there's going to be an add library declaration for that.
You so you can start there and then start looking at what things refer to this library? Like, what properties am I setting on it? What files am I saying? Are it? And then start tracing back the variables.
And so you don't have to worry about the ridiculous folder structure that's going on.
Okay.
So I've talked a lot about how our build system is terrible.
Let's say that you are very enthusiastic and you think you can help fix the built system.
How might you go about doing that? So there are a few avenues that I personally would go about looking at if I were tasked with this task.
So first, I would try to unwind the directory structure actually try to put the definitions of libraries in the places that make sense for them.
And what you will find challenging about this is that we actually don't have that many libraries in open source.
So for example, we have this a ten directory and you'd expect there to be a library named A10 in omnisource, but we actually don't have an A10 library at all.
Why is that the case? Well, we used to but it turned out that there's no reason to have a separate libate and dynamic library alongside the libtorch.
dynamic library.
This is something that's useful inside our Facebook build systems, but inside C Make for the open source binary distribution, it's not you So we actually just merge them together.
So there's a single live torch dot s o that contains all the a ten code as well as the torch code.
So you've got this problem, which is that the physical directory structure doesn't line up with the dynamic library structure.
And that might not be a big deal if you can, you know, define a ten to be, say, a static library and then you bundle up a bunch of static libraries into a dynamic library, But in old versions of C Make, this was kind of buggy.
And so you're you'll need to figure out, like, what the, you know, earliest version of CMIC you can use to actually do this properly is.
Second is that there is this concept of modern CMIC.
Right? Modern Cemic says, don't set Cemic, CXX five's global variable, which twiggles all of the CXX fights for every target defined in the CMAK list because that's a global property and you have no way of controlling the visibility on per target basis.
Instead, look for target underscore functions, which actually define, you know, a property, but only for a specific target.
and I would probably start going and trying to, like, reduce the visibility of everything.
And that's kind of a, like, tall order.
Right? Because there are so many targets And there are also a lot of different build configurations you can build PyTorch under.
So it's a little not tricky to, like, make sure you've gotten them all right.
something that would be kinda nifty is if there are a way to, you know, basically look at the output of CMIC.
Right? Because As I said, SeaMake doesn't actually do any building.
It just produces files that actually build your software in the end.
So if there is a way to, like, run SeaMake, get the output and then just, you know, say, okay, I'm gonna refactor CMEC and I'm gonna, like, ensure that the output is always the same or if I change the output, it's done so in a semantic preserving way.
And then I could, like, iterate on changes to CMIC without having to actually go through the rigor and rule of actually building Pytruich under every configuration under the sun.
I just need to, like, you know, make sure that I don't change what the outputs and questions are.
And so that so like, like so for a simple case of refactoring CXX flags.
Now I just you know, if I wanna, like, put these into targets, Well, I can use the, you know, output and the make file to see, oh, where were these CMIC the the CXX flags applied in the first place? and just make sure when I do the refractory, I'm continuing to tie it in all those cases or maybe I'm removing it only in places where I know it's not necessary.
Oh, and one last thing, don't change things in the sea make randomly and then pray that it works out like yes, the SeaMake is really complicated.
Yes, there are a lot of parts, moving parts to it.
But, like, fundamentally, SeaMake is a very simple language.
Like, It is basically someone went into the process of designing a language without wanting to design a language.
And so, like, that's why the if statements also look like functions because it was like, hey, I'm not a language designer, but I'm just adding features.
But the good side of that is that Seamake is actually simple, and you can understand it.
And so if you need to make a change to Seamake, just make sure you actually understand the change you are making and then do it.
Don't just randomly make changes and hope it works out, but just gonna waste a lot of time when you're trying to do things.
I could probably rant for Seamake a lot longer, but that's really all I wanted to say for today.
Talk to you next time.
.
