---
layout: post
title: "New Ci"
date: 2022-03-29
---
The original audio files are available at https://pytorch-dev-podcast.simplecast.com/

# New Ci

Hello, everyone, and welcome to the Pitzer Cheuvreux dev podcast.
Today, I have Eli Urigus with me to talk about our new continuous integration system, which we migrated over from Circle CI to GitHub actions.
Eli, do you wanna introduce yourself? Hey, everybody.
I'm Eli Yriguez.
I work on the Pytorch Devonford team over here at meta, and I've been working on the team for probably about two years.
excited about all the CI options that we've been able to provide the PyTorch organization over the past couple of years.
Alright.
So let's get get started.
So the first question I have for you is so we used to have a CI system that was on circle CI.
So why did we move to GitHub actions? Like, if it's working, why break it? Yeah.
So that's a great question.
So this project kinda started at, like, mid twenty twenty, I think.
We kind of identified a there's a big cost motivation in terms of moving from circle c CI to GitHub actions.
one of the things that's great about Circle CIs that it comes in.
It's a fully featured kind of CI system, but one of the negatives of that is that there is kind of a cost implication that comes with that and kind of one that we foresaw growing as the PyTorch organization grew.
But as well outside of that outside of the cost motivations, we kind of felt that there was a platform out there like GitHub actions that provided a little bit more flexibility and extensibility that Circle c I just didn't have at the time.
And I think, like, one of the biggest things for us GitHub provides is, like, the API and webhook architecture that that it has.
allows us to do a lot of things with automation that are just not possible with other CI vendors.
We talked about this with, like, Jenkins.
We talked about this with Circle CI.
We had a lot of different vendors that we had talked to.
And outside of all of them, GitHub actions just hands down provided one of the best models to be able to extend their product and be able to provide automation and tooling that no other provider had.
As well, one of the bigger things about get of actions is the shareability of actions just in general.
Like, we saw a great opportunity to be able to use off the shelf actions as well be able to build our own actions and share them amongst different projects.
And we see that as like a big opportunity for the future for ourselves.
If I recall correctly, Circle CI did have this Forbes functionality for sharing actions.
I guess it didn't work too well for our use cases.
Yeah.
I I tried out the Circle CI orbs feature.
I I really wanna be a big proponent of of kind of what orbs we're trying to do and and and, you know, having that feature just seemed like a good idea.
But unfortunately, I just was never able to get it to work correctly, and I I'm sure it's a great feature for the people that use it, but unfortunately for our use case, it just didn't provide the level of what is it called accessibility that we needed in terms of our shareability.
Alright.
So my familiarity with the CI system is way back in the day when we initially had it on Jenkins and then when we ported it to Circle CI.
So I actually know very little about how the GitHub actions version of the CI system is set up.
Can you just briefly walk me through what the major components of the c r is? Yeah.
So our c i is a little bit interested stain.
If you worked with Jenkins, it might be a little more familiar now than it was with Circle CI with at least for the infrastructure portion.
So Right now, our CI is run on infrastructure that runs on AWS.
It auto scales to our needs.
So, like, if workflow is fired off.
It sends a request to our auto auto scaling system, which creates a node, and then that node gets connected to GitHub, and then their a provisioner or whatever actually schedules a job to be run on it.
So that part should feel familiar.
In terms of the way our CIS is set up today with workflows, Initially, we used a a gingiva templating type approach, which is kind of similar to what we did with the domains previously.
So if you are familiar with torch visions.
CI configuration right now, that's kind of an approach that we took earlier.
The evolution of that is kind of related to GitHub's feature set for actions just in general.
So, like, the reason why we chose Ginger Templating, first and foremost, was an initial lack of reusable workflows.
So when we started the migration, GitHub actions lack the idea of reusable workflows lack the idea of being able to use consolidated actions with regular actions, meaning that when we tried to do the thing about shareability, we weren't necessarily able to do that initially.
Also, there was initial lack of rerun workflow from failed, which is a feature from Circle CI.
that a lot of people love to use, and that led to the need to generate multiple workflow files just in case a singular workflow failed and was flaky.
It didn't affect all of the rest of the workflows from actually passing and running and, you know, reruns just in general.
So right now, it should feel still a little bit familiar.
We we tried to use a lot of the same scripts that we had used before.
So everything in the dot Jenkins folder is probably still used.
A lot of the scripts from the dot circle CI folder are still used.
One of the things that we wanted to make sure when we did this migration was we kept a lot of the things familiar in terms of the test scripts.
We didn't wanna change those in particular because we didn't wanna make we wanted to derisk the migration when we actually did it.
Well, we probably shouldn't be storing our built scripts in dot Jenkins anymore.
Yeah.
That's that's an item for us to fix later on.
It hasn't been a higher priority for us.
We've been working on other features, but it is actually one of the things that we wanna do work out later on.
And Just in general, we're trying to make it so that our CI scripts are not vendor specific.
Ideally, we'd wanna move it to a dot CI folder but that work hasn't begun yet.
So I wanna just make sure I understood correctly.
So basically, in the battle days when we were on Circle CI, there wasn't a way to create a parameterized job.
Actually, there was a way to create a parameterized job.
Right? But we we need to use templating to, like, basically instantiate all the different versions that we wanted to do.
So we're not using templating anymore.
We don't we don't need to do that? Right.
So Michael Suo, who is an engineer who helps us out with the Pytorch Dev infra, work every now and then has done a great effort to consolidate a lot of our workflows.
So to give you more of a full story, Reusable workflows was introduced as a feature a couple months ago, and it's finally matured to the point where we can actually use it inside of our CI workflows.
And so Michael Suo went through, did a bunch of work to consolidate our workflows, and now we've moved our pool request workflow into a singular file, our trunk workflow into a singular file, our nightly workflow into a singular file.
So it's easy to kinda know where these things are coming from.
And the added benefit is that if other people wanted to use the workflows that we use on Pytorch, Pytorch, they actually can know.
Okay.
So previously, we generated a lot of little workflow files, one for every job we were doing like so these would be like things like you know, Xenial, you know, Python three dot six CPU, something like that.
And so now now they're all put together in one giant work flow.
Okay.
Well, that certainly reduces the number of entries in the GitHub CI status screen that I have to scroll through.
It definitely does.
I I think at one point, we we got all the way up to, like, a hundred and eighty two checks, which is a little bit ridiculous.
And I think everybody kind of recognized how ridiculous that was.
That's a lot of checks.
One of the other pieces of infrastructure that I noticed that changed is the HUD.
So I actually I I wrote the first version of a HUD.
It was like this crappy React application that we did in a few days.
And we have a new HUD.
What's what's up with that? So the new HUD is based around the idea of being super fast, having a data set that we can make queries on really quickly.
It's based on a technology called roxad, which we picked out.
The old HUD, after you had got done with it, was based on RDS, which we identified as kind of a slower version of roxad, so we moved on to Tell me more about what roxad does.
So roxad is just a a database where we can make queries on we we send all of our webhook data to roxad so that we have a set of GitHub data that we can do a lot of different things on.
And so, yeah, one of the cool things about HUD right now is that it's super fast.
It works really well.
mini HUD is a new feature that we've added that allows you to be able to instead of having a timeline view, you can have this mini view that just tells you what are the failing tests, what are the failing jobs, instead of having to, like, go through a full view.
And we just wanted to make sure that when we created the new HUD, we wanted to improve our error reporting experience.
We understood that the GitHub actions log view wasn't necessarily the best way to view log sometimes because of how slow it loads.
So we moved logging into that into HUD and just made it a little bit easier to kinda surface areas in general or surface errors in general.
I heard we're also using roxad to do some new features.
Like, apparently, we can search for flaky tests in the Corpus now.
Yes.
Actually, so this is a really cool feature that was recently added by Carrie and Jane on the PyTorch and Evanford team as well.
basically, we have now have, thanks to roxa, a flaky test view.
So we can actually view the history of a of a particular test over the past fourteen days.
and we can disable tests from that view within HUD as well.
On top of that, there's a bot that will actually go through and automatically disabled tests if you reach a certain flakiness threshold.
So we're kind of doing a lot of work to kind of ensure that Pytorch CI in general is green without having to have active thought be put into what type of test to disable? What happens to the tests after they get disabled? We'll ping the on call, and Jane did a lot of great work putting together a a list of POCs for each of the test files.
So we'll contact the POC and the on call for that particular test file to notify them that their test was disabled and to hopefully ideally have them go through and fix it.
Okay.
So up until now, we spent a bunch of time talking about how the internal architecture changed, which it sounds to me like it didn't change too much, but we now have roxad, which we're using to aggregate our data.
And we've also consolidated our workflows.
using GitHub's actions.
So if I'm just a plain old end user of the CI, do I care are there other things that, like, you know, are nice about being in this new CI universe? I think one of the things that is really nice is just having a singular view, like, having a singular place that you go to to, you know, make your PR have your PR tested and you don't have to leave kidhub in order to be able to do your own work.
Like, I I think one of the biggest things that I kind of disliked about Circle CIs that I had to click through a bunch of different things in order to be able to view all of the CI that I I had at the single at a single point in time.
And having that all in GitHub, I think, is is a good experience for all of the developers out there to be able to just have a singular place to be at.
Now get up is a relatively new offering.
And I know that we went through some growing pains where they didn't support various features like a parameterized workflows, Is there anything else that we're still waiting for from GitHub? I think a lot of the features that we've asked for have been have been completed and and done.
One of the bigger features that we're asking for from GitHub right now is kind of having a view of what our self hosted runners are doing at that moment.
That would be a really great feature for us on the infrastructure side so that we we can understand what our runners are being used for at what times, what percentage is, to be able to make better decisions on, like, maybe we need to increase the amount of Linux runners that we have.
Maybe we need to increase the amount of Windows runners that we have.
Maybe there's a workflow that that is particularly greedy that we need to disable, and we don't have that data right now.
And having a webhook event that would provide that data for us, I think would be amazing.
I mean, but, like, to to speak about it, our Gino partnership has actually been very, very good.
We we have regular meetings with the GitHub team, the GitHub actions team, just to make sure that and we we can provide we have a forum to provide feedback, and they've been really, really good.
And they've implemented a lot of the features that we've asked for in the past.
for example, parameterized builds, anything else? The rerun workflow rerun workflow from failed feature was a was a feature gap that was from Circle CI to get up actions that we put as one of our highest priority items.
This is actually what enabled the consolidation of workflows to actually work correctly.
So remember when we had talked about the Jinja templating that we did, the little workflow files that we did, and a a lot of that was due to having this system where we couldn't rerun workflow from failed.
So that was a feature that we've been asking for for a long time that GitHub was able to provide for us recently, which was a a really awesome feature to see GoGA.
Okay.
So if I wanna make a change, to something in the CI.
Like, I wanted to add a new configuration.
Where should I look in that situation? So right now, you can look in I think it's dot get hub slash workflow slash pool dot yamal.
That should provide a really good baseline view of what our CI workflows and how how our CI workflows work just in general.
Michael Ciulla had done has done a really great job again.
I wanna give him a shout out of making reusable workflows kind of at the forefront of our CI offering.
So in essence, it really should be as simple as copy pasting one of the one of the workflows that are already inside of there, and they're just kind of molding that into the thing that you want it to be.
In the old system, I remember I had to make new docker images sometimes for configurations.
Is that still necessary? Yeah.
That's one of the things that's still a a a necessary evil of RCI system.
I I call it an evil because it it it's one of those things that not a lot of people understand, but yeah.
It it is still one of the one of the things that you do have to do, unfortunately.
So what's what's next for the CI system? What should I be hoping to see in the future? So there is a big effort going on.
One of the things that we're looking for in h two is we have a big project called Project Nova, and it's gonna be around the idea of standardizing our tooling with reusable workflows and consolidated actions.
And rolling out that tooling to all of our domain libraries and ecosystem libraries as well.
As part of Project Nova is, well, we're gonna be giving more and better access to GPU runners across Pytorch projects.
Right now, we identified a need for Pytorch projects to have GPU runners just in general.
This is like a baseline requirement, and we understand that our infrastructure right now doesn't provide that great of an experience.
So what we're trying to do is we're trying to make it a little bit easier to maintain the infrastructure and then trying to make it so that low traffic repositories still get the same level of access that Pytorch Pytorch gets to GPU runners.
So does that mean that if I want to spin up a little project that I don't want in Pytorch, Pytorch.
I can easily get CI for that project now.
Yeah.
That's that's part of the idea.
Yeah.
Project Nova is is about that One of the key results that we wanna see out of the project is a bootstrapping process of a new project that is less than a week of engineering time.
That's that's the goal.
So we wanna be able to create a runbook.
We wanna create be able to create the tooling and give the access to the infrastructure to kinda make it simple.
Like, a a lot of researchers aren't super confident when it comes to to doing CI work.
And we want them to be able to focus on their core competency while we focus on our core competence.
and that's kind of what the idea of providing this tooling is about.
Okay.
Well, thanks a lot for joining me today Eli, and thank you for being here.
Thank you for having me, cheers.
.
